VIDEO 0
All right, let's get started on our authentication and authorization journey. We've got this project that I've created for you that is loosely based off of uh one you might have heard of called the water project as well as some others. Um I'm going to uh start with this as a base. Uh we've got a you know I think a decent little uh little starting place for us to have a tiny bit of functionality with a web app, but also to have plenty of space for us to add some authentication and authorization. So, I'm just going to grab the URL here and go ahead and clone it. Uh, I've got this folder here and we'll just do a get clone and we will do that. Cloning in here and we've got a project in here. I'll open that up in VS Code. All right, I've got this project opened up in VS Code and we've got hopefully what was fairly familiar to you. We've got this backend project that is a uh ASP.NET NET web API project and we've got a front-end project that is a React project uh that's using TypeScript and we'll be using Vit for that. Uh hopefully this is pretty comfortable with you based off of what you've done in other classes. So I've also opened up a terminal so that I've got a terminal here in the back end and also a terminal in the front end um so that we can open up projects. Now, I think I hope uh that you've already been using things like entity framework. So, if we do like a net effort that's already installed and ready to go and you see the nice little unicorn here when you run that command. Uh if not, you'll need to install entity framework because we're going to be using that. Additionally, we might be using some additional packages. So, this project already has some packages uh listed in the CS project folder. Um so like entity framework core and things are already kind of here. We'll also use swashbuckle to test out our API but we will need to use identity here. And so if we want to add and we will in our back end dot net add um actually that's the one I want package Microsoft ASP.NET core identity and we'll go and grab that one and add it. And now in our uh CS project file we should have identity in here. Okay. whichever version uh is appropriate for you uh what you're working on. Uh I'm using .NET 10 here. Okay. Oh, also in our front end, if you haven't done we're going to start out doing an npm either install or do a CI um go and grab all of those packages. Shouldn't take too long because I think there's not too much yet. Uh there we go. Uh so we've got some packages here and we should be ready to go and run. Let's uh let's have a peek at this project and see what it's actually doing. So we'll go ahead and do a net run on this side and we'll do an rundev on this side. Hopefully we can get this all up and running. Uh looks like we're running on port 5000. Great. Uh and port 3000. It's not um fully ready to go, but let's uh let's test things out. All right. Excellent. So, local host 3000. We're running our React app, and uh this should look at least somewhat familiar to earlier stages of the water project, uh where we've got some things in a database, and they're just put into a little table and split out to the page. We've added a tiny bit of pageionation down here. We've got, uh, you know, looking at this, here's Sparky's. uh we have some state that uh that React is uh is handling for us so that we can you know add you know hit the buy now button go to an individual products page not very pretty but it's functional uh we can go and say hey we want to add for $3 a piece we want to add four of these to our cart uh we've got a little cart uh icon in the corner and we've got this little subtotal and continue browsing go and find another root beer uh this one's not bad either and we'll go and add that to the cart And now we've got a cart where we've got, you know, four bottles of this brand and one bottle of this brand. We've got a subtotal shopping cart. We hit proceed to checkout. Nothing actually happens. Uh we can continue browsing. We can go back to our cart. We can hopefully uh remove an item from our cart and it updates our subtotal. Continue browsing. So we have at least the basics of a shopping cart. We have the basics of a site that is based off of a a little database. Uh looks like that's working basically as we want to. So, that's a I think a pretty good foundation for setting things up for our ASP.NET uh web app that we're going to add authentication and authorization to.

VIDEO 1
All right, we're moving along in our ASP.NET uh web app with React front end and doing authentication authorization. Uh if you recall last time we tested out the app, we made sure it was working. We double checked in our project that we had Microsoft ASP.NET Core identity package installed and we didn't. So we actually added it last time. So make sure that's in there. And now we're going to use that package in order to set some things up. So identity and authentication and authorization is actually pretty easy to mess up. And when you rely exclusively on AI, it can mess some things up. It's getting better over time at not doing that. But we want to be very careful and do things uh in a measured way, but it is one of the reasons why we tend to use at large organizations a lot of third-party authentication and authorization providers. It is one of the main reasons why the university that uh that I'm at right now is switching over to Octa in the next little while. Uh because authentication authorization is a pain. Um and getting it right is really really hard. Uh unless you follow carefully measured steps. So we're going to hopefully follow carefully measured steps and not get too crazy, but we're going to kind of put a good foundation in there for our authentication and authorization. Again, if you want to build an app with, uh, third party off, uh, that's a great way to do it as well. Okay, great. So, in our data folder, uh, we want to add some things. Right now, we've got this, uh, this root beer class that has the information on the the root beer that we're displaying out to the page, and we've got a database context. In order to support that, we're going to add our own authentication user or authenticated user class and an O or identity context, database context, so that we can separate those things out. You could technically put them all in one big happy database, but it's pretty common to have the authentication stuff separate from the uh sites data. So, let's go ahead and do that. Uh first of all, uh let's just add a we'll call this an application user.cs. That sounds good enough. Uh, and so we're going to use that Micros not extensions use Microsoft scene Microsoft.core identity. That's great. That's what we want. We'll see if AI is helpful or not helpful in this project. Uh, so here's the name space we're going to be in. We still are in. And let's see if we've got it correctly. Okay, so we've got an application user that's going to extend identity user, which is a built-in user for the identity um stuff that is provided by Microsoft. That's exactly what we want. Uh right now, we could extend this user and add additional things if we want to. That's pretty common as you get into developing features in your apps that users might need to have associated with their accounts. For now, we're just going to leave it blank because we're just going to basically use the defaults for identity user. We we might revisit this depending on how far we get. Okay. So then we also want to add in a database context and we'll call our database context I don't know like off identity DB context CS. That sounds good. Sure. Let's go ahead and add that in. And what we want to do is we want to using let's see if I can guess correctly. identity we actually want entity core framework here and oops entity core framework great uh same name space and then let's see what AI suggested okay so we have this off identity DB context we are going to extend the identity DB context in this case uh with the application user that we just created that's exactly what we wanted uh and so then we have a sick constructor with this context. Uh let me just double check. Looks like it's got everything we want. Base options. That looks good. Okay. Uh if it ends up giving us issues, we'll come back and fix it. But I think that's everything we need just to set up the basic DB context. So we'll have these two DB contexts. We'll have to specify when we run our migrations which DB context we're actually going to use because now we have two of them. So there's a little extra work on that. Uh but let's go and uh actually kind of wire these things up. Uh so we have to do two different things. We have to set in our app settings, we have to set a connection string and then in our program we have to actually add this into the startup of the application so it gets injected properly. So all right, let's close these things out. Open up at app settings.json. We've got this cool connection string to our database that has the the root beers in it. Uh, but now we want to add in Oh, I want to wipe that out. Okay, we're going to add a root kit. What do we want to call this one? Uh, rootkit identity connection. Yeah, we'll call it that. And then we could call it rootkit identity SQLite. That's fine with me. Uh, so that will create, we don't have one yet, but uh here's the database that's got the root beers in it. Um, rootkit o.sqlite. And it will create a rootkit identity.sqlite SQLite uh as we do our migrations and apply those uh to the database. Okay, that looks great. And let's go and wire this up into our program. We're going to make a few changes here along the way. So, one of the things we're going to need to do is we're going to need to add uh using and we're going to add in we've already got repeat API models so we don't need or data. So, we we don't need that. We do need to uh add in the identity stuff. So, Microsoft ascority. Excellent. I think we will need that eventually. Okay. So, we've created a builder and then we're setting up some builder things. Oh, uh AI is already thinking that we need to add in our identity context. Uh that looks actually pretty good to me. Oops. Oh, I messed it up. Let's just back out of that. Okay, let's try that again. So, builder services add db context and is it going to get it right this time? rootkit off DB context and so forth. All right, an AI is guessing incorrectly. Let's let's use the one that's actually correct. Uh it's guessing multiple of these. Let's use the one that's correct. Okay, so we've got this new DB context. So here's the old one. Um so we've got the regular connection and then we add in our identity connection that we just added to our app settings and that we added in our DB context file. So that is much better. Now, let's just double check that we need to we're gonna we're going to want to add a few other things here um to our project. Looks like uh looks like we're using Swagger. That looks that's good. We like that. So, one thing we want to do is we want to add in before our core stuff, we want to add in our uh APIs for the authentication stuff. So, we're going to use builder.services. services capital services add identity API endpoints. Use that for our agent user and dot framework stores. Yeah, that's exactly what we want. Okay, so we we're going to add our API endpoints um because Microsoft knows how to do that really well. Uh that are associated with identity. Um and so things that are like login and logout and register and things like that. Uh Microsoft says, "Oh, okay. Well, the ASP net core identity uh namespace knows how to do all those things." And so we're going to add those in manually here. Uh let's go and double check. We need to change a couple more things down here. Okay, cool. So, a lot of things are already set in place. We've already using authorization. Now, very carefully, the injection matters. Uh, the order matters here. Um, you can easily screw things up. Fortunately, AI is getting pretty good about debugging these kind of things, but we want to use authentication and authorization, but you have to do those in that order or things get all messed up here. So, we want to inject our middleware for handling authentication into our app and authorization. Um, and so that's good. We also want to do a little bit of mapping our API endpoints. So, we're mapping our controllers, which is great. Um, and so let's go ahead and add our map a group. Uh, and we'll do type this um API off and let's do app identity API with the application user. Great. Okay. Excellent. Um, so that uh that should be good. Let's do our migrations. Oh, I forgot to even stop the app. Let's stop the app and let's go and do our migrations. I do historically mess up uh the commands to do migrations. So, let's see if we get it right this time. So, we want to do a uh let's see dot get migrations add initial identity. Oh, it already is guessing correctly for me. Um, and we'll set the context to be rootkit oapi. So, that's the name of our project. uh item tb. Okay, hopefully that's correct. Let's see if that will build and run. Fingers crossed. Oh, build succeeded. Okay, that looks pretty good. All right, and nothing is a problem there. So we've got our new initial identity uh migrations which is great. Okay. So now let's uh go ahead and apply that. And so we want to do our at ef yeah sorry efase update. And we want to make sure to specify our context that is the same. I think that's correct. Okay. Let's see if this runs without error. should still build but oh there we go. So now we've uh run our SQL to build that out and we have this rootkit identity.sqlite database. Everything looks good there. I'm going to pop that open in a program that we can view that because I don't have anything built into VS Code. You might in VS community or other APIs. Let's uh let me uh pause and pop that up into another program. All right. Sweet. Uh I'm sorry the text is so small. I can't figure out how to make this middle text larger. I can make the uh the menus larger, but not this uh this text. So, uh we're going to ignore the indices here. And uh we'll also ignore um any of these bottom tables, this migrations history and migrations lock and SQLite sequence. We'll ignore all those. Uh what what we just did by using ASP.NET Net Core identity and adding in the identity uh stuff uh is we added in these tables here. Okay, so we have three main tables and then a whole bunch of association class tables. So here's our here's our main tables. So we have our users table and if we were to browse this there's nobody in our users table right now. Um so we'll we'll change that soon. So, but our our users have things like an ID, a username, an email, um whether the email has been confirmed or not, their password hash, which we'll talk about in a bit, uh their phone phone number if you set one, uh whether two whether the two-factor authentication is enabled. Um and then a few other things. And then we've got our roles. Uh so in a system, a user might have a particular role and a role has a name. And if we choose to use authorization based off of RO or RO based access control which we will um then you can say hey you know this action is only available to users with a particular role. So how do we assign a role to a user? Well, we actually have that association class um or table um where we have user roles and this is just a u you know basically storing the many to many relationship between users and roles to define which roles a user is in. Now there's also a login table we're going to it's important if you're debugging stuff but fortunately it's just going to handle it for us mostly by itself. And then we also have this uh claims uh table. So, there's RO claims and user claims. We're going to get into claims in just a bit. Um, it's the ability to do things within a system. Um, and we'll we'll talk about that as it as it comes up. But mostly, uh, we're going to deal with populating this user table and then, um, and then eventually roles and use those for authentic, uh, authentication and authorization.

VIDEO 2
All righty. Uh let's move on with our project now that we've got everything going. In fact, when last project uh we looked at the SQLite database uh in the last video, we didn't actually test things out. So, let's do a net run and we'll do an npm rundev and let's check and see what's going on here with this project. So, we refresh the page. Uh looks like everything it's a little slow but uh looks like everything is up and running. Can go to these pages. Okay, great. Our project's still working. Uh even though we added a little bit of authentication and it builds and migrated with our app O database so far. We haven't really touched the O database, but we've created it and we've kind of wired up a few things to help us out. Now, one thing I didn't I haven't showed you before uh is we can just use Swagger to look at our API endpoints. And I want to at least me mention a couple things. So if we were to do this at the beginning of the project and just look at swagger, we would have only had these two endpoints. Uh so an endpoint that has uh a get for the root beers and a get for the containers. Uh and that's the only thing that was in our project. Uh and then in our last where we just barely added in uh in our project, we added in all those uh API uh methods and then mapped uh that API group. Now, under API, under the O uh folder, we actually have all of the stuff that Microsoft thinks we need as part of identity. Let me zoom in a little bit. Uh in order to manage authentication and authorization. So things like register and login and refresh, confirm an email, resend the confirmation email and so forth uh including uh two-factor authentication and so forth um are things that uh Microsoft thinks you should have in a API that handles uh the net identity. And so we can take advantage of all of this stuff. Uh so if we want to have a register, we can go and submit in an email and a password to do the registration. And I think we'll do that in just a bit after we set up one other API endpoint that we'll need right now. So let's go and and pause uh and go and set that up until we and then we'll come back to Swagger and and play around with this. So here's what we want to do. When you are separating your backend from your front end like we are here and if you're using the same programming language and tightly coupling the backend and the front end then you can get away with not having to deal with all of this complexity. But if we have an API backend that is not really connected to our API front end other than through API calls like we will in this project then we actually have to do a few careful things. Now, having a separate API back end is awesome because it allows us to have multiple different frontends. So, we're building a React front end here, but we could have a, you know, native uh iPhone or Android application uh that used a different front-end codebase and connected to the same API. We could have all sorts of different uh you know front-end code that or other programs that was able to consume our API and then we just leave it as it is which is great but when we have this separation with our React we have to make sure that React or our front end knows whether we're authenticated or not at any given time. And so we need to open up an API call on our backend where we hey where we talk to the back end and say hey backend am I logged in uh who's logged in what credentials do they have or what roles do they have or what claims do they have and so let's set that up now that's the only thing we're going to do in this video is test things and then set up this kind of uh authentication state endpoint. Um and let's uh let's do that. So, in our controllers, uh, let's go. We've got a root beer controller, a root beer controller, uh, and we've got the stuff that was, uh, in there already. We can, you know, look at that if you want to. It's very similar to the water project, but let's go ahead and add another controller here. And so, we'll go new file, and we'll call this, uh, off controller. And we want to added a bunch of stuff in here. So, we'll use system.security.claims. We'll talk about claims in a minute. Uh and then we'll do uh using Microsoft. Well, we want that, but we don't want the authorization library or name space. We want the identity. There we go. Come on. AI autocomplete using MBC, which this is an MBC app. And we're going to use those model not models. We want data. Uh that looks good. Yes, we are in the controllers name space. Okay, cool. That's gives us the start. And so let's go ahead and set up this uh this controller. So we're going to do our API controller here. And we're going to set up the route. That's that's not correct. But uh we're going to do API and then the route is off. Okay. And then we're going to set up. Okay. Let's let's just let's just add in this code and then we'll change it as we go. Okay. So we've got a public class O controller and then we're going to use the user manager and this is not our identity user but we have a user called the application user. I can spell it correctly. Application user. Okay. Uh user manager extend the controller base. Okay. That's great. Um and HTTP get uh me. That's that's fine. We can call this whatever we want. Um, but it's, you know, it's not uncommon to use something like me. And then we want to, uh, let's see, public, uh, let's do, uh, not get current user first. Let's, uh, let's change this. So, let's change this to public. Uh, we'll call this a sync because we want to make sure we do asynchronously. Task I action result. And let's do get current session. Call that get current session. Okay. And then uh some of the stuff isn't what we want. So I'm going to let's wipe out some of the stuff that we're wanting right now. Okay. So get current session and their code for just a minute. Okay, so we're going to say if the user identity is one way of doing it. Um let's write it out this way. If the user identity uh is authenticated is not property is not equal to true. Okay. So if that is not equal to true that brace to me. Okay. So that's not equal to true. Then we can return okay with a new is authenticated is false. uh username equals uh that's actually be a string this is not user it's user name and then email is also a null string and rolls is an array that's empty strings. Okay, so this code says, hey, we're going to get the current session and if the user is not authenticated, then we're going to return this information. Okay, great. Uh, now we need to adjust everything down here. So, var uh so let's just use the user. So, the user and we want to do weight user dot Get user AC sync user spelled correctly. That's not capitalized. So, we're going to uh get the user. Uh so, if they are authenticated, uh we're going to get the user and then we're going to grab their roles. And this gets a little complicated. Uh but let's go and do uh let's see autocomplete's got some of this correct. Okay. So where uh the claim let me type these out as claims. We can understand that these are claims. Okay. So where the claim uh claim.type equals claim dot claims dot uh claim types roll. That looks good. Select uh again let's type out claims we understand that these are claims uh value. Okay, great. Um let's get only those that are distinct. Um and we will sort them uh by roll just so they're in the right order. Okay, great. Uh and this junk here at least. Okay. And if that's the case, then we will return is authenticated is true. And then we will return uh for this one, we don't need to return a whole new user. That's not actually what I want to do. I just want to return some JSON where user is username with their email their roles. Okay, that looks like it's correct. Okay, so hopefully that kind of makes sense. So, we're adding a new API endpoint. Uh, we'll call it me. Uh, we're going to u get the current session and we're going to check to see if the user is authenticated on the back end by using the identity um name space. And if they're not, we're going to set is authenticated to false, username to null, email to null, and their roles to be an empty array. Okay, if they are authenticated, so if this evaluates as as uh true instead of not true, uh then we need to grab the user uh we need to grab their roles and then we're going to return this information is authenticated as true. We'll grab their username, grab their email, and grab the array of roles that they are in. Okay, great. That looks like exactly what we want to do. And now we need to be able to handle it on the front end. So, first time we get to touch the front end code in any of my videos, uh, is we're going to go to the front end and we'll go to source and let's see in types. Let's let's create. So, right now we've got a root beer uh with uh this type and then a cart item with this type. Those are already built in. So, let's go and add a type. So we'll call this one off session. And in our off session, we're just going to export interface off session. Let me just double check that we have Nope, that's not what I want. We want an is authenticated and that's boolean. That's correct. Then we want a user name and that's a string, but it can be null. We want an email that's a string that can also be null. And we want rolls that is a string array can't be null but it can be empty and great. Okay. So this is just an o session um to be able to store that information as we grab it uh from that API call. And then of course we need to also add that API. So in our lib we've got a rootier API that's got the rootier API information. So we can talk to the API in the back end. And let's go and add in another file. Call this O API. And let's go and do this. So we want to import that type that we just created. So off session is that correct types off session not sure if that's right. We'll come back to that in a second. Okay. Um and let's uh use API base URL. Uh is the V API base URL. That looks fine. And then we want to get O session get O promise. That looks good. And we're going to fetch the base URL to almost right. So off and instead of session we call this me and then credentials include. So we have to have credentials include uh if we are using cookie uh based uh authentication which we are. So we want to make sure that have that included in there. And then we need some code. We've got some error. We'll need to fix in a minute. Um so if response is okay or if it's not okay, uh then we're going to throw a new error. Uh that's just fine with me. And if it is okay, then we'll return the response and call that good. Uh what is our error? Do we need to go up? There we go. We need to go up a little bit. Uh that's not in this folder. It's up a folder and then into types. Okay, cool. So uh right here uh just we're just going to add that API on the on the front end. So, we're going to use the base API uh which is just that slash API and then we're going to uh call the get off session uh we're going to define this get off session function and all it's going to do is it's going to grab uh API off me um and then use credentials including cookies uh to be able to assess that and then uh if it doesn't respond then uh can't load it and if it can we we load that. Okay, let's uh let's see if this actually works. Um, so we need to rebuild things. Um, so we'll go ahead and uh we'll stop this out and we'll we'll do a net run on the back end. See if this builds. Fingers crossed. Stop the front end. We'll do an Let's build and see if that works. It looks like that builds. Let's do an npm rundev. Um, everything looks happy here. So, let's go back to our web and refresh swagger here. And if we just do a get um to try it out and execute this then we get a response. And our response is that we are not authenticated, right? Is authenticated is false. No username, no me email and roles uh is there. Great. Well, let's uh let's create our our user. So, we're going to register a user. Try this one out. And let's register at testest.com. And then our password is going to be let's go rootkit 2026. And you'll notice that this is not particularly long and doesn't have any special characters in it. Let's see if this will execute properly. And it must have at least one non-alpha numeric character, which is a terrible idea to require that. Let's do that. Rootkit 2026 exclamation point at test.com. Let's execute that. And it looks like uh we got sorry a 200 response which is okay. And everything looked like it works there. So let's go and try to log in with that. So, rootkit 2026 exclamation point with test.com and we will try to too much going on here. We will try to sorry we got too much going on here. All right, let's try to log in. So, we will try to try this out. try to log in with our test test.com and our password was rootkit 2026 two-factor code is not relevant and recovery code is not relevant because we are not using that yet and let's see if we can execute this and we get a response with a bearer token which is excellent that's exactly what we want we'll talk about bearer tokens in just a minute and a refresh token And so we have this token right here, which means we can go and if we try out our O, we still get that we're not authenticated. The reason for that is we haven't added in our bearer token. Oh, that's right. We need to we need to redo this. Let me uh refresh. I totally uh forgot. Uh so uh we will go ahead and log in. Um, but this time, uh, we don't want a bearer token because we haven't, uh, set up to deal with bearer tokens. We want to use cookies. Um, so we're going to try this one out with the login. And we're going to use cookies to true. Session cookies. Sure, we'll set that to true. Um, we don't need either of these right here. And we were using test at test.com. We may No, that's the token. Um, remember the password and then we'll execute this and we get an error. I need to figure out what's going on with that. Uh what did we do incorrect? Uh we added a comma. So let's take out that comma. Execute that. And okay, sweet. Looks like we got a 200. So we authenticated with a cookie. Now that we have a cookie set up in our browser, let's go and try out our ame. And boom, we're authenticated. True. Username is tested test.com. Email test.com. We have no role set. So everything is looking great. Now we now have the ability to log in. We have a user in our database. In fact, why don't I pause and pop that open just a sec. All right, I've opened our SQLite database. Uh, we've got ASP.NET users. Browse the table. And oh, we've got an entry in there. We've got test.com uh with that email and so forth. Here's the password hash and we can log in. Now this user does not uh there's no if we were go to like user roles and browse that uh there's no user roles yet. Uh but in our project uh we do have one user. The user can authenticate using the login uh endpoint and we have successfully added this o/me endpoint which at any given time can get whether the current user is authenticated and you know some information about them if we want to add that as well as the roles that they have. So that means that React at any given time could call that endpoint, double check to see, hey, is this is anybody authenticated and what roles do they have? So that it can then properly display um and then call other API endpoints based off of that or not. Um so that it knows uh the authentication state at any given time. So that's a really important thing that we set up here uh so that we can know how to talk to the back end. Okay. What's out?

VIDEO 3
All right, let's move on. Uh, we need we now have a backend that we know that the API the identity APIs for registration and and login are working. We've added in our um ability to check the authentication state from our front end which is really important thing for us to add. And now we're going to add in some of the functionality into our app so that we can take advantage of those API endpoints. So the first thing that we'll do is we'll go to our controller and we want to add in we've already got the uh this is the uh you know the get the authentication status uh endpoint the ome but we also want to add in some ability to log out uh and so let's go and do that. So, we'll do a http post. We'll call this log out and public. Nope. Have a typo in here. Yeah, we'll do this as a a async task action result. We're not using JTs. I don't know what you're talking about. I So, let's fix this part. So, we're going to go await and say sign in manager, which is a builtin class. sign out async. So basically when we call this public class uh that's what we're going to do. Oh, I see what's going on. We missed a curly brace. Let's uh add in that curly brace and then everything should be happier. Okay. So now what we're going to do is we're going to use the lowercase signin manager dot a sync and when that happens correctly we will return okay and we'll call that logged out successfully. We already had that in there. Um, that looks to me. Oh yeah, we did create a sign-in manager. Let's go do that. So, um, with our off controller, we already have a user manager um that we call user manager. Uh, but we also want to add in a sign in. There we go. Signin manager called sign-in manager. That looks great. Now we come back to our code and that looks good. Okay, great. So now uh when we call the on the controller the log out method um it signs this out asynchronously and then we return a logged out successfully message. Okay, that's a good starting place for us. Okay, let's move over to our front end. And in our front end we want we've already created this um O API uh TypeScript file that uh supported our git off session on the front end. Uh let's add some stuff to this. I'm just going to kind of copy and paste from some stuff I've already created and we will I'll post these at the end of the project. Uh what's going on? But uh I'm not going to like code every single little thing. I'll I'll pop it up on the screen so you can kind of add it in. Um but we're not going to type out everything. So we've got our base API here and one of the things we want to do and in addition to having this off session, we do want to have some error checking in here. So, I'm gonna add a little bit of error checking code um in here, and I'll just uh pop that up on the screen for just a second. So, this will allow us to deal with uh API errors. We're going to use this uh in just a minute. So, if there's a, you know, if there's an API error, um then we've got some fallback message that we'll just uh go and and add in there. Uh nothing too crazy at that one. Uh but let's go and now handle uh the register user because on the front end we need to be able to handle register user and we've already got uh we'll deal log out in just a second. Um but let's go and deal with the register user login user and log out. Um, so we're going to export a sync function call register user. And what are we going to grab? Uh, email and password uh is what we're going to grab first. And let's see if we're going to do that correctly. So we've got a promise there, a response. We'll go our base URL API off and register. That looks great. Let's see. Method post. That's exactly right. That's what our API for our identity uses by default. Uh headers, content type is JSON. That looks fine. Body stringify. Email and password. That's fine. Credentials include. That's important for our cookiebased authentication for right now. That looks good. If response is okay then error do we want to that unable to register user that's just fine and could throw that error we could just let the let's just let the read API error code handle that new error do that looks Oh no, sorry. That's not what we want. Response is not okay. That's That's not what we want. We want to We would want to throw an error, but we deal with the rest of that stuff. So, yes, there we go. Okay. So, uh yeah. So, we'll register the user and if nothing goes wrong, if things go wrong, we're going to use that read API error that we uh that we added in. Okay, great. Uh let's move on. So, let's do export async function login user. Let's see what a AI code gets us. All right. So, we're going to take in our login function. We're going to take in an email as a string, a password as a string. Let's we also need to at least follow the net identity stuff. We need to have a remember me as a boolean. And then we will have our promise void const. Now, we don't want response here. Let's fix this. So, we'll call this const uh search parameters equals new URL search parameters. That looks good. Then go if remember me search parameters are true set them to be true otherwise we say parameters are false. Okay, that cleaned up. All right, so um yeah, so this allows us to set whether we remain logged in or not. Okay, so now once we have that, then we need our response. So we have our response and it's going to fetch API o login and then we need question mark then search pars and method post headers application type that looks good so far include body stringify email password it should be fine So then that's working well. Then if the response is okay or sorry it's not okay then we do want to throw new error and use our read API error able to log in. That looks good like it Okay. All right. So, we've handled uh the register and the log in. Oh, got an error. Let me uh see what's going on here. I think we didn't close out Did we close out our last method? Hopefully that's correct. too many. All right, let me double check this. Fixing it correctly. Yep, I just an extra curly brace. Okay, so now we've uh handled uh that. Now we need to do the logout, which we haven't done yet. So, um AI thinks that that's what I want. Let's see if it gets correct on this one. So, log out user send a response to fetch that. go to call the log out uh API method post credentials include that's great and then the response is not okay then we're going to throw a new to use our API error code that we did unable to log out because that gives us a little extra juice there. Okay. All right. So, now we've got uh on our front end, we've got some code to be able to handle uh con or connecting to our backend API for the authentication stuff. So, sweet. Let's move on. Okay, time to move on to route. So, in our app tsx file, uh we do have a bunch of stuff we want to add. Okay, so we've already got our uh browser router. Um, we're going to use the React router DOM in this project. I think that's similar to how Auto Project used it. And we've already got catalog pages and product pages and cart pages. And then we've also got this cart provider. And we want to add some extra stuff to this. So, let's import. And we're gonna we don't hit react. We're going to import our login page, which we don't have yet. we're going to create for uh in just a second from pages login page. Then import our register page from there and import our log out page there. log in, log out, and register have been added in. Now, it's going to squawk at us because those pages do not exist. Uh, we need to be able to handle that. Now, in addition to that, we're going to add in these routes right here. So, we've already got a cart route. Let me uh see what we got here. I don't think I want them there. I want the routes. So it's there if it's there. Log in register out. All right, let's try that. I think that should work. We're still going to have problems because those things don't exist. But that should be enough for right this second. Okay. Um, so now we're going to need to add those pages. Before we do that though, let's let's add in a header here where we get some information on these various pages because it's pretty common to have like login and log out and you know where you're at on the page uh in the site in a header. Let's go and add a header. Uh we'll do that as a component. Oh no, we already added the header. I apologize for that. I already forgot I included the header in the project. So let's uh let's add some more functionality to this. So we're going to include let's do nav links that so we can include nav links here. We've got our function header and turn. See you're going to make this a little bit more complicated. Let me grab some code that I already wrote and we'll drop this in and we'll walk through it. All right. So, I've added uh some some complexity here. Some code that I've already written. So, um we've already I already have that nav link. And then uh in the header, I added u you know a few classes to this. Um, right now we've got a div that's got our six columns, medium, width, U, and then we've got uh the catalog as our header. And then in here at the very just the very top of the page for our nav, uh, we're adding we're using these nav links um, which are going to have the nav links that are associated with our routes. Uh, so catalog and then cart and then login and then register. And we also specify the two property on where these are going so it lines up and connects to our routes that we added in. And so I will uh again I will post all of this kind of this code. Uh but that should give us a start on our page uh where we can use the header. Now we haven't currently added that to any of the pages. So let's go and do that. So if we have a let's go to our pages. All right. So right now we have a cart page, a catalog page, and a product page. We need a login page. Um so let's take care of that. Do a new file and we'll do login page. Okay. And then our app, our app now has a login page. And so it should stop squawking in just a minute. So we get this all exported. So let me grab code and then we'll walk through this. Uh we're going to quickly walk through this login page. Um so I'm going to grab uh form event and use state from React uh link and use navigate from the React router DOM the header that we just created. And we're also going to uh use the uh O API that we created. So uh in this page um we are uh setting these various states. We're also going to use the navigation um that we just added in the header. Uh so we've got our states here and we've got email, password, remember me. Those are the items that uh we set up in the last one. And we're also going to deal with a uh message and then a state on like is there something that's in progress? So uh again I'll post I'll post this code but we've got an asynchronous function that's going to handle the submit and so that'll be a form and we'll go and set the error message to nothing and then the submitting to true when it is submitted. we will try to go and log in the user and then go to the catalog and if that doesn't work uh then we will set an error message and when we're done with it we will change that kind of progress is submitting to false and then down here all we've got is some basic just AI generated code uh in order to allow us to have a form on the page and submit again I'll post this but this is just AI generated code okay so there's our login page let's go and add in we We need a registration page. We're going to basically add the same kind of thing to a registration page only we're going to point at different endpoints. So we'll go ahead and create a new P file. We'll call this register page. And then I'm going to grab again some code that I've already written that assisted with AI to grab this register page. I don't know why I fix this API should be lowercase. Let's fix that. Okay. Uh same kind of thing. So with the register page, email password, uh the confirmation password, um and then the same as before that we're storing a state. Um we're handling the submission on here. In this case, one of the things we check to see first at the front end is if the two passwords match, uh you know, the the confirmation password and the regular password. And then if it does, we'll go and, you know, try to submit this. Uh, so using the register user method that we just barely uh handled. And then we will say check and see if it worked and then send them to the login page if they've registered correctly. And if not, then we've got an error message. And then we've got some code to handle the form elements for that page. And that's it. And again, I will post this as well. Then finally, we need, as we specified, we're going to need a logout page. And we need to go up by folder. That's why these are squawking at us still. Hopefully that checked in just a minute. Maybe I've got the uh No, that actually should work. Okay, now they're working. I don't know why it wasn't working before. Okay, now we need a logout page uh to be able to handle logging out. So, let's add a new page. some code for this one. Fix our here. All right. And so in this case uh we don't have a whole lot of state that we need to take care of because we're just forcing the uh the state to be invalid or login to be invalidated in state. Um and so we're going to run the logout function then say that they're signed out and that's it. If there's alert or an error along the way that we can we can do that but nothing too crazy here. All right, looks like our app is happy now. So, let's go and see if it actually works. If we've got these pages built in here, let's do our back end. That's all we're trying to do. We're trying to run.net. Then we will build this. See if the front end builds. Oh, we've got an error. I've got to go and fix that. All right. AI thinks that I had a little typo in my register page at the top uh with liboth API, which I thought I'd fixed in all three of those, but apparently let's double check and see if it has been fixed. It looks like it builds now. So, let's go ahead and run it. Sweet. Look like we are up and running. So, double check this. Refresh the page. All right. So, we won't need to deal with this card and put it in the right place, but we now have a catalog page. We have a cart page. Doesn't link on the rest of the pages. We've got a register page uh which has email and password and confirm password. It's not very pretty, but we can go and uh fix this. If we're already registered, we could go to login and we could check whether to keep you sign in across browser browser restarts. We could try our try our password and see if it actually works. Looks like uh we might be. So now we uh we can't really test to see anything. We didn't we haven't added any uh screen here or anything to our header to kind of specify that we're logged in. That page did not stop. And if we log out, uh you are now signed out. Go to log in. So again, not pretty pages, but it looks like our functionality is currently working. So, we will take a break and pause there because I think this is a good place where we've wired up frontend pages for logging in, logging out, and registering to the uh backend uh functionality to do that in the API. And everything seems to be working at the moment. All right, well,

VIDEO 4
All right. In the last video, we started getting authentication kind of connected fully up between the front end and the back end. We added some pages to log in and log out and to register. Uh let's close these out now. We're going to come back to a couple of them. But uh right now we actually need to actually kind of make it work in the app. Uh we're we're we're sort of partially there, but we're not fully there yet. and we need to set some things in place so that we can do uh authorization uh in the future video. So, first thing we're going to do, we have already built into our front end. If we go to our source and look under context, there's already a cart context for you. And this should be fairly familiar if you've done the the water project uh kind of code, but we want to add our own context uh for authorization um and authentication. So, uh, let's go and add in a context. We'll call this off context. And we're going to put a bunch of stuff in here in order to make this fully work. So let us grab to grab the grab context and use callback use contact and use effect use state from react. We're going to need all those. We don't call any of them yet, but we'll get there. Okay. Uh, then we want to well, we have to use React. So, type React node from React. And we don't need to use navigate in here. But we're going to import get o session which we created last time from that o API and we're going to grab that o session that we specified last time. So okay. Uh we haven't used any of those yet. But let's go and make this context. So, we've got our interface and then let's go and we'll say O session is our off session. Is it nullable? That's probably fine. Is authenticated is going to be a boolean and we want an is loading. Then we want to be able to refresh this. And do we want to call it refresh off session? Yeah, that's probably fine for me. Okay, so this is the interface. So this is what our our class is going to look like. Okay. Now we need to add a const. Okay, we're going to do off context in actually let's go ahead and do that. That's fine. I'm going to define or find Okay. So, we'll set the context. We'll come back to that if we have time in this video. Const. We want to provide the ability to have an anonymous session. And let's see what we've got here. So we have in our previous set we have is authenticated not null but we want that to be false. Then we have a username we used capital and before null email null roles is that okay that's great. So this will allow us to have an anonymous session which we want. We want regular people to come and be able to view our site without being logged in. Uh but we don't want everyone to be able to do everything on the site unless they're authenticated. Okay. So let's go and add function. We're going to export this. So O provider children react node. That looks okay. Set session. Let's see. use state off session. No, no, that's okay putting it's true con off session and use the call back asynchronously. Okay. And then here we need to catch some errors because refreshing the off state could ultimately lead to a bunch of errors. So we will try inside of our try catch uh we will try to wait get off session set off session if that doesn't end up working set our anonymous a session finally That is loading. False. That looks good. Brace. That looks good. Okay. Uh we do we may need to import a couple other things. Uh we do need to use effect and we want to O session must have a curly brace out of place and then turn. Oh, let's see if it guesses what we need here. some off provider that the off session is authenticated might work but let's write it like this is loading refresh off session that looks Then children context provider. Okay, cool. Looks like we're not there yet. Do we need to fix that? What does it think the fix is? Oh, it's possible. False. Okay. And then lastly, uh, we need a function to use O. And let's see what we got. We're going to use the context with the O context. Great. And then we're going to specify if the context is well let's start off with if there isn't a context then we'll throw an error. We didn't add any of our custom error code into this. So use must be used within provider. That's fine. And return the context. Great. All right. Now, we need to clean up wherever my issues are. All right. I had a curly brace out of place, but uh that all works now. Okay. Again, um the whole point of this is to kind of follow along conceptually at a high level and then the exact syntax. AI is really good at this. um at you know once you know the pieces that need to be put into place and what they need to do uh and you can spot check whether it's actually doing things correctly or incorrectly uh then you know you can borrow other people's code or the AI code and then just verify that it's actually getting what you want. So we've specified our context here which is exactly what we want and now we need to wrap up our app in this context. So if we go back to our app Uh here's our app and the code that was given to you. We're already wrapping uh our app in this cart provider context and we want to do the same thing but with our off provider. So let's go ahead and import that provider and let's Yep, that's what I want. I want to route wrap up our whole app in an off provider. And we will close it out here. And great, that's exactly what we want. And so now our whole app uh will be within this O provider. And we did provide the anonymous uh routing context. So we or anonymous uh user context so that you know you don't have to have authentication to get to everything. But it now allows us as we're wrapping our app in this context to be able to enforce authentication uh for wherever pieces we want to. Now the last thing I want to do in this video is I want to last time when we were testing things out couldn't really tell if we were logged in or logged out uh we could have tested it in other ways but let's provide some visual cues uh in order to do that. So last time we worked a little bit in our header and so if we go to our components where's our components? There's our header. This time I'm going to add in the O context here. So import use O from our O context and we haven't used it. Let's go and double check that we're actually before we get to our return, we're going to go and check uh that stuff. So let's go like that code. Let's do our con. Let's say yeah we're going to do part of let's do off session is authenticated is loading use off and See, let's do some dynamic code here based off of whether they're authenticated and logged in. So, let's see. Let we'll call this status class name. Then we'll set some classes for our CSS. Sure. We can check off that way. And then we want if it's not loading and it is authenticated. Let's see if we like that badge. BG success and status text. Uh we don't want to show that. Let's let's do something fancier than that. Let's do like sign in as and then we'll put in we have to grab that value. So we'll grab the O session username. Looks okay to me. Okay. And uh let's do an or user. Yeah, we need to change that to question. That's fine. Okay. All right, that looks good. And so if they're if it's loading and they are authenticated, we'll go ahead and display this. But we also want some if they're if it's loading and they are not authenticated. Let's add in danger. Let's do warning. And if you don't know Bootstrap stuff, then that's fine. Um, we could either do not signed in or have it be signed out. Sure, let's do that. Okay, let's see. I think everything else can stay the same. Let's test things out. Oh, we do need to do one more thing. Um, we need to after login and log out, we have to refresh the authorization state. Um, make sure that that method gets called. So, let's go to our login page and our log out page. In our login page, we need to fix this. So in our login page uh we were trying to uh do the login the user and if that's successful then it sends us to the catalog. We actually want to in between there we want to refresh the O state and we probably need to bring that in as const here so we can handle that. Uh looks great. And we also need to import use O in order to do that. Okay, great. So that looks fine. So after we log in, we'll refresh the authorization state. And let's do the same thing on the log out. So going to log out the user and await refresh off state there. It's great. need to add the refresh off state and use O and import text. Okay, cool. Let's uh let's try it out. Uh so, okay, fingers crossed. Okay, here is our site. Uh, refresh the page. Let's go to page two. That looks like it's working. Okay, that's great. Uh, we have this log in and log out. Let's try to log in with our test.com. Sign in. Looks like we are logged in. The visual didn't change. I need to double check that. See if it actually did what we want because I thought thought we needed to see a little bit more visual there. Let me just double check and see what's going on here. All right, I paused the video over there for a second and had to do a little bit of troubleshooting. I uh apparently I had forgotten in the O API uh file uh when we were defining the login user I had omitted uh the using cookies uh in the parameters um and so the cookie uh for authentication in the app wasn't working properly when we were doing it with swagger it was working just fine but uh we need this line right here in order for that to to work uh properly. So once we have that up and running, fingers crossed again, uh we're signed out. Uh let's refresh the page. Go to login again. These are ugly looking, but this is not a UI class. This is a security class. So type password correctly. Then boom, we are signed in as test.com. Now we can navigate around. We can go to a cart and then continue browsing. And we are still uh signed in. But when we go to log out, uh we are signed out. And then we can go to log in again. We can probably re That's not great user experience to have that little page there. Maybe we need to change how that logout page works or automatically forward or something like that. But we now have added our authorization context around our entire app where we can now log in, log out. Uh we haven't tested the register, but I I I think the register works. Um and now we can start rolling this into a little bit of role-based authentication and into some things that we we actually are trying to we're building the foundation so we can get to the to the next pieces. All right. Well out.

VIDEO 5
All right, we're starting to have the pieces come together a little bit. We've got login and logout working, and there's also visual cues on the page. And now we need to move from our authentication, which we're not fully done with, but we're done uh with the basics, and now we're going to play around with authorization. Uh this is going to require us to add a bunch of different things on here. There's simple ways of doing this, and there's hard ways of doing this. We're going to kind of pick a middle ground where you can kind of see some of the complexity but not go too crazy into into the depths of this. So let's uh start with this. So in the back end we want to uh add a little bit to our data folder. So up here in our data folder let's add a new file and we'll call this os.cs. This will allow us to define some very specific roles uh that we'll use throughout. Again, you don't necessarily have to do this in its own separate file. Uh we could just do this dynamically or in the database itself. Uh but we're going to we're going to go ahead and do that. So, we'll say that this is in the name space rootkit o and let's see what we got here. Class O rolls and we've got a string user and a string admin. Uh that could work. I'm going to call the user uh customer instead of uh instead of just user. So there are the roles that we'll define. Again, we could we put this in place so that we could add them dynamically and you know have kind of a central place where we manage these. Okay, great. Done with that. Now let's also add in a policy here. Okay, so I'm going to add a new file. Again, this is a way that we can kind of centrally manage these things. So we'll call this off policies CS and we'll do the same thing name space and let's see not there we go um nope not off rolls this is called off policies not sure what you're doing AI okay and for now we're just going to do a single policy um this one uh it says admin only. Let's uh let's call this right now we have our catalog in there. Um where we've got our our root beers in here. Uh everything is is kind of listed uh as a catalog. Let's uh do I want to call it catalog? Yeah, we've got a catalog page. Let's just call it catalog. So we'll do we'll do a policy that is managing the catalog, right? And we don't want user only for now. Uh again, we could change the name of this. We can change what we're actually doing with this. Uh but this is the I want to do uh the create and the update and possibly the delete. I don't know if we'll do that right now. Uh aspects of CRUD of the catalog. Right. So far, we're only reading the catalog from the database. In the rest of our app, the admin only uh is going to manage the catalog. And we'll call this uh manage catalog as a variable. Okay, sweet. Uh so now we have a two or two different roles and one different policy just defined as strings. Okay, so that's just to help us centrally manage things. Okay, that's the easy part. Uh the next part we could manually in our database go in and make an admin. We could make a role that has a certain uh name and we could assign that role in the database by updating multiple tables in our SQLite database. So we could do that manually. It's kind of a pain to do that. And so for now again this is not something that we would push to production. We'd want to be very careful. We might even put it in our git ignore file just to make sure. But for now, let's go and create a quick little file that is going to create a user uh that is an admin and give them the admin role in code. So I think it's beneficial to see how this is in case you wanted to write some code to manage users and manage the roles and manage the roles that users are in. Uh this is some code that could help you if you wanted to do that uh in the future. So I'm going to go and create we'll do this in the data folder. Uh it's as good as place as any. Uh and we'll call this the O uh identity. Um I don't know like generator uh AI suggested cedar. Um I don't know. We'll just call this generator. All right. So we've got this uh this section. We want to use identity here. So using Microsoft.NET core identity. Okay. And we're going to space API data. Okay. So we've got this generator here and let's create some methods here. Okay. So we don't want a unique identity. We don't want to deal with that. So, let's start out with uh kind of just creating some stuff. Um, you know, maybe we'll call this uh can start with this code. We want to do this asynchronously. All right. And we're going to do an async task. And we will call this I don't know generate maybe generate default identity async. Yeah, that sounds fine. Okay. So, let's do it that way. Uh and so we're going to we're going to use this uh with a I service provider called service provider. That's fine. And I configuration configuration. Okay. And that's not what we're doing. Okay. So here's what we're going to do just to set things up. We were going to say we got a variable uh user manager. That's just fine. We'll start off with a user user manager. But we also want to have a role manager. So our role manager, let me just double check that those are correct. Oh, we won't want identity user here. We uh we actually have our application user that we created before. We'll go ahead and use that one. Okay. So we've got our we've got our uh our user and our role managers uh set up so that we can then actually start using them. So let's do uh let's do roles first. So we'll do a for each um and then we'll do the whole name in and we'll create a new array with let's see we're not going to just use hardcoded values here because we have these there we go author rolls admin and author rolls uh we didn't use user we used customer. Is that not showing up? Did I misspell it in our file? Let's just double check that. There's our off rolls. I didn't actually call this customer. Let's call this customer. That's better. Okay. Um, so now we can have authors admin and author roles customer. Great. Those are what we want. And then if the role manager the role exists by that name then we are going to add that role and create a sync. That is great. And then we also want if the that didn't work out well. If the create result do succeeded. If it didn't succeed then we're going to throw an exception. be able to create roll name string. That's fine with me. Cool. So now outside of this, I don't know why it keeps wanting me to make create a new grid. Uh I don't want to create a new grid. Stop it. It's not creating a new grid for me. Uh so now we have So that was the rolls. So, we grabbed all the rolls that way. Okay. Now, let's Okay. So, in our config, why don't we do that? Varant type. Pop it there. Okay. bar. Uh we'll call this like the there's a we want to get the configuration file. Um so from the configuration we want to get the section that is associated with the admin user. So uh from the admin we'll just call this I guess section um is configuration.get section and what do we want to call this? Call this like generate admin or generate what we call this generate default entity works identity maybe admin that's fine okay u and so then var admin is it doing Thank you. Oh, my intelligence is going berserk. Uh, so admin email is the admin section that we just created. And then we're going to grab that for email. And then what we want to do is for the first one we want to get call this admin at rootkit local. It's fine. And then we'll set the password for this to be root get 26 exclamation point admin. That looks great. clean up these errors. Oh, looks like I am outside of the curly brace. So, let's get rid of that curly brace and add one here and that will fix that problem. Save it. It should hopefully clean up all of this. Yes, not all return pass or code pass return a value. We're going to fix that next. Okay. Um, so now we've got those set up. So, let's do var Oh, we've got code. Let's see what it suggests we do. So var administrator or we were using the admin user that's okay is await the user manager find by admin email that sounds fine and if the admin is null then we're going to create one with admin email and email confer true that's great then we're going to create admin result async admin user and password. If it didn't create successfully, then we're going to throw an exception. Okay. Then we want to add in that admin role to that admin user. And if it didn't work out, we're go. That looks pretty good. Let's uh let's clean up my errors here and call it good. All right. So, I had to add a curly brace right here. That fixed that. And then I realized that in my method signature I don't need to return a string here. We're just uh creating the default stuff and that's okay if it doesn't return anything. So okay great. So now this will create a user and we'll need to call it and make sure that it runs. But this will go ahead and create an admin user. It'll be admin rootkit.local with this password and it's going to add the admin role to it as long as it doesn't create an error. Now, do we want to actually do this in code? Do we want to actually put this up on GitHub? No. Uh, but when we are testing things out, especially authentication and authorization, we do need some users in our database and we need it in there correctly. And the identity database has got some quirkiness in what values it expects in certain places. We want to make sure that we've got everything in the right place, the way that Microsoft thinks it should be. And so, this code will help us to do that. and we can now move to doing stuff with this admin role. Okay, so we need to we need to get this up and running. Uh let's add it to our application. So on the back end, we've got I can find it. We've got our program. There it is. Our program.cs. And we've already done most of the work in here. So let's go and make sure we've got uh this going. We probably need to add I think we need to add using identity in order to get that to work in the builder. Okay. Uh so I've got identity in there. So let's make sure that that's in there. Okay, great. Um and then we have already added our identity API endpoints down here where we added the entity framework stores which is great. We want that, but we also want to add uh the identity roles here. So, let's go and bring this down before we do this. We will go and add identity ro. Okay. Okay, so we're adding our identity ro and we're also adding that uh identity framework stores uh to our add identity API endpoints. Great. We also need to make sure that we add our policy in place. So for cores which is right here, let's do our builder services authorization and we'll set some options and we didn't set those two policies, but we did set one policy. So let's get rid of the one that just randomly popped up. And if you remember right, we set a policy We specified it as a in our data so we can now use it. So we have an off policies dot manage catalog. So we're going to have the manage catalog policy. That policy requires the role off rolls admin. Great. So we've now set this into our program so that if we ever use the manage catalog policy then it requires an admin role. This just allows the policies just allow us to be a little more flexible. So rather than specifying that hey this needs the admin role we can specify the admin policy in case we want to have additional roles that end up being hierarchical in the future. This allows us to do either of those uh and be as flexible as possible. We could change it if we want to. Uh and then we need to do one more thing uh down here. So we're building our app. So we build our app down here. And then before we build our app or sorry after we build our app and before we get everything all our middleware are set up let's actually run that file to make sure that we have a user in there. So we'll do using our scope. Uh so create a scope and well we don't need all that stuff in here. Let's just add in a little bit. We want to we'll do our o identity generator and generate default that and scope provider build configuration and that looks good. Sure. We've got this extra curly brace. Let's get rid of that. And that looks all right now. Okay. So now this will just run every time uh right after the app builds to make sure we've got that that user with the right role in there. just for testing purposes. Again, in production, we want to take this out. Oh, and we uh in our generator uh we had got the section uh called the generate default identity admin from the configuration file. We actually need to put that in there if we're going to use it. Uh so that's what we're going to store in here. Uh so if we go to our app settings.json JSON file and then in here we can have a section where we change things out. Uh let's go and do that. So we're going to add in the I copied pasted that. Uh so that's what we called it to have an email. So email was root kit admin rootkit.local and then the password was rootkit admin. Yeah, we don't need to use anything. We go. Oh yeah, this needs to be its own section. So let's add in that curly brace and comma to uh separate it from the previous section. There we go. That's better. Okay. So now we've added that in again app settings.json and in our generator we don't want to put that push that to production as is. We want to make sure to keep this careful. But in dev we want to make sure we get everything working. Okay, we've done some setup. Now let's actually protect the endpoint in the back end uh that's actually going to be doing things and checking our roles. So let's open up our controller. We haven't yet played around with this root beer uh root beers controller. So let's go and do that. Right off the bat, we want to make sure that we include the authorization piece of the identity uh namespace. So using Microsoft ASP net core authorization, we're going to be doing that. And let's check out and see what we've got already. So we've already got a class that has a HTTP get to forget root beers. And then we have a another HTTP get which gets container types. And that's it. Okay. So let's add another request here. So we'll add an HTTP get and we'll come back to that in just a second. Yes. Well, why don't we Yeah, sure. Let's do that right now. Um so we will set this and we'll deal with routes in just a minute but we can set an authorize uh and the authorize function by itself will just like if we were just to do this we were just to authorize then that means that this method would require log a loggedin user someone who was authenticated this couldn't be viewed anonymously but if we want to have a particular user or a particular policy then we can pass that in as an argument. So in this case, the authorized method is getting passed in or the decorator method is getting passed in a policy. Uh the manage catalog policy which we just barely defined requires the auth uh the authenticated user. We could pass in a role here um or not authenticated user a admin role. I apologize the policy requires an admin role. Uh we could pass in a role here if we wanted to. The authorized method is actually really flexible and pretty great to deal with. So let's uh write this method. So, we've got a public uh async task and we could it does sound much more fun to do get secret root beers, but I was going to at least for right now uh was going to just do like a get uh root beers for oops get root beers or admin something like that. Uh, this will get us the list of of root beers and maybe we could have some that are current not currently offered on our store that are still in our database. Maybe we could get ones that this list allows us to grab ones that we're going to use. Uh, you know, ones that are upcoming, for example. Uh, this maybe gets more than we than we normally get. Uh, so this at least in this database because there's not a whole lot in there. We're just going to grab um not the secret root beers. We'll just grab the the root beers u from the DB context. No tracking. Fine. Um, then we don't even need to do aware because we don't currently have any that are secret. We could do that if we had a something in our database where they were secret. We're just going to order them by root beer name then to a asynchronous list and return those root beers. Now this method is basically going to be the same as the get root beers method uh except for it doesn't have the pageionation piece uh to it that that does but this can only be called by a user who matches this policy which is a user that has the role of admin. Okay, cool. Let's uh let's add one more thing. We'll add a another method where we can do a create. So we'll do a post in this case and oh we've already got a bunch of sample code. Let's see if we like it. So uh is the policy manage catalog? That's still fine to me. And then we've got a task. Let's create root beer and from body root beer root beer. That looks okay to me. DB context. Uh let's uh oh let's get before we do that. Let's do root beer dot root beer ID equals next. Root beer ID. Do we have a property on that one? I thought I had already had a property on that one. I'll double check that in a second. We want to get the next one if we can. And then DB context uh roor beers add root beer and await db save change async. then return that it was created a see we don't want a new one oh we want to actually just call the API doing here return created an action let's do created we want to create the API root beer There's recruit ID. That's what we want. Great. Let me double check on next root beer ID. I thought I had put that in the default, but maybe I didn't. Oh, yeah. In my notes, I forgot we're we're calculating that. So, let's uh let's calculate this next root beer ID. So, we'll do a bar next ID and let's see if it gets it correct. Rupers domax and then int That looks correct. Yes. Okay, that looks correct. Great. Uh, and it looks like it compiles. Okay, we've got a couple more pieces to deal with. So, we've added some authorization to these two methods by policy. And now let's add some frontend backup for this so we can actually uh see what we're doing here. So I'm going to go to the front end which we've ignored for a little while. And let's go to our root beer API file. This doesn't have too much in it. We've got a response um and then we structure the response and then we've got this get root beers and get container types. But we need to add in the support for the rest of this. So, I'm going to copy and paste from some things that I've already got and then I'll walk through it with you. All right, copied and pasted and uh let me show you what the what's different. So, uh so first of all, we've got this interface uh with the response and then I also created an interface here uh with the input and so when we want to add a new root beer, these are the things that we're going to bring in as uh in the create method whenever we use that. Uh I also added just like uh before added some a function for dealing with API errors and cleaned up a little bit there. So with get rippers most of the that's the same the get container types that's basically the same and then we also now have a function which is to get the managed root beers uh which is almost the same it's just we uh handle that through the admin uh API in this case instead of through the uh the root beer uh API or the containers API and then under root beer or under the create root beer uh we take in a root beer that is of that interface input Um, and in this case, we're using the root beers API post. Uh, and then just send it off. So, nothing too crazy. And again, I'll I'll post these uh files so that people can have a peek at it and look what they want. And then we're almost there. And now we need to have some page on the front end. So, we've managed the API a little bit here, but now we need to have an admin page on the front end. So, let's create one. Um, let's create a new page and we'll call this admin root beer a and let me copy paste and just walk through this. Okay, I populated our admin root beer page. Uh, we're using, you know, react stuff. We're adding a header, the use o stuff. Uh, we're also going to import the create and get manage root beers and root beer inputs from the up root beer API that we already created. And then uh also the type uh that we just specified. So got our inputs here. Here's the the state that we're going to uh use as we manage things with React. Um and on this page, we're going to load root beers just like we were before in our catalog page. Uh so we're going to grab the root beers. We're going to also need to handle when we submit uh when we go and create a root beer, for example. So, you know, if we go ahead and submit, uh we're going to try to create that root beer and then update the root beers and make sure everything's working there. If we want to update fields, uh we've got some code to do a little bit of update uh for the CRUD part. And then just some super AI uh generic code to uh to have a little table here. And that's all that's going on there. Last thing, and again, I'll post this, but we'll uh we'll have a peek of it after we do our last piece, which is to uh make sure we have a route that goes with that. So, of course, we need to have in our app, we need to have route that is for the admin user. So we're going to uh import that page import the root beer page from those pages and then we're going to provide a route down here. Let's do it uh let's do it right here. So we'll route and group your ad grouper page and that looks good. Okay, last thing promise and we'll test this out. Uh so we want to make sure that our header has that admin page otherwise we won't be able to see it. We'll be able to call it uh programmatically but we won't be able to see it. Let's go and grab our header and we will update this header. And in our header we already were playing around with the uh is authenticated and loading. Uh let's go and add a con. We'll say is admin and we'll grab from off session roles includes admin. I don't even know if we need all that stuff. All right. And then down here somewhere around here. Let's do it I guess below the cart. So right now we have some is authenticated parts uh for the login page. Let's add right below that. So under this nav link let's add in a is admin. Then then let's see what this code looks like. the nav link decoration to admin reviewers. Call it admin. It's not there. Null. That looks great. Okay. Excellent. So, essentially, uh, if someone is an admin, then we're going to show one more piece in the header. Let's test it out. See if we can get this thing working. Okay, let's start the back end first. See if that builds. Okay, looks like that's running. And let's get front end up and running. That is running. Great. Okay, let's refresh the page. See what we get. We didn't break it. Did we break it? All right. Getting a little bit of an error. Uh had a chat with AI for a second. Looks like we forgot something in our controller. All right. My apologies. Apologies. I keep getting uh kids uh interrupting me. Hopefully that's not too much insanity in the background as I do this recording at home. All right. Uh so had a quick chat with AI and it looks like I messed up one thing in the controller. Uh so we need to make sure that we handle that appropriately. So under our git repres uh one of the things that I did not specify in the get request was the admin. This is admin get. Hopefully that will fix our issue. If we rerun the back end and it's already loading or already loaded, so that should be okay. Oh, I've got a little crash. What What did I do wrong here? All right. I was exciting to debug in front of people. So, uh, this one was about uh something I should have thought about. Uh, it was completely obvious. uh when we go and run our code uh if we go back up to our data and go and run this code to generate our default user and everything uh there's no check to see if we've done that before and we've got a database a SQLite database and so every single time this tries to run it tries to do that exact same thing. So we want to make sure we only add the user once if they haven't actually uh been there in the past. And so let's go ahead and modify this code to fix that issue. And hopefully maybe that'll be the last one. If not, we'll keep going. Let's see if we can fix this. So, uh, the problem I think was in adding the role to the user right here. So, let's need to add an if statement around that. So, if the user manager, if the admin user is in the admin role, sorry, if they're not in the admin role, then we will add them to that. All right, we're trying to build again. See this going. That looks a little bit better. And build and running. Fresh. Ah, there we go. Sweet. Let's see if it works. We're signed out. Let's log in. In this case, we're going to use our our new admin account that we specified. Admin at rootkit.lo and our password was rootkit 826 exclamation part 8. Hopefully I typed that correctly. And we're logged in that. Excellent. And we also have an we have admin uh page. And then oh there we go. Admin catalog tools. And so here is a user that has the admin role. And by that policy, we can now see this page and we can add a root beer. And let's just do this for right now. Like test root beer from Russ and retail price is 778899. Wholesale cost is two or three. container is. Let's do we should probably make that a drop down, but let's add that in there. Oh, and we created one. So, it's down here. Dumb test root beer by Bruce RS. Okay. Uh, sweet. Looks like the admin is working and we can log out and things are working great. Okay, that was a lot of work. This is a long video. Uh let's pause it there and then we'll try to see if there's some other options to add a little more nuance to this authorization and authentication uh schemes that we've got running. All right. Well,

VIDEO 6
All right. In the last video, we did some really good work in setting up authorization. Uh, specifically, we set up authorization that we could either do by user role or that we could do by policy. And we defined a policy that happened to be associated with a user role. And if we were to look in our database, uh, we now have, uh, because we set this uh, in code, we have an admin user. Um, here's our admin user. And then we also have, uh, some roles. So, we have an admin and a customer role. And as of yet, we've only associated with one user. The C485 user, which happens to be our admin user, is associated with our nine, I'm sorry, with our uh 91 A9 RO, uh, which happens to be our admin role. Um, and so we have that in our database and that was what is associated with that admin page that is only accessible to the admin user. Now, if we want to, we can get uh, you know, now that we've got kind of a structure in place, we could uh, do a lot of different things. Like we could make this whole entire controller. Uh we could add a little decorator here and then just put authorize so somebody has to be logged in in order to use any controller or we could then call in not either our policy um or we could put in RO uh that you know any an admin uh user is here. And so it's pretty easy to add authorization uh as a decorator to any controller uh you know by class or any particular method. uh we can add the authorize in here as well. Um so these are uh these are really easy to set up once we have kind of the base in place which we which we do now. So let's uh talk about how we can do some hardening. We want to add a little bit more hardening to our app now that we've got basic authentication and authorization set up. Uh let's first take care of passwords. So in our back end uh in the program there's our front end sorry uh there's our program uh we want to set some policies. So in our builder anywhere in the builder section before we do building let's just add it in here right before course uh we're going to do builder services deal with cookies in just a minute configure and there we go um here's some good sample code that we can play around with. All right. So, by default, Microsoft's policies for passwords are, in my opinion, terrible. The minimum length is one. I'm sorry, not one, six. Uh, the minimum length is like the sixth and it does require uppercase and lowerase. Uh, but it's not uh actually it does require nonmetic numeric characters. I'm not sure why it's here. So we want to do sane password policies that actually increase security length is really really important. Adding numbers and uppercase and lowerase does increase the entropy does increase it a little bit but it also makes it so that passwords are far far less likely to be remembered and far more likely to be written down in places that they shouldn't be. Now we should be using password managers but not all users do that. So we're going to set things that are a little bit uh sane here. So require digit false. Require lowerase false. Require non-alpha numeric uh false. Require uppercase false. Require unique characters uh we're going to set that to be one. Uh so that you can have as many uh unique or non-ique characters as you want. uh but we are going to set length to be something good. Now some people would say that 12 is sufficient. Uh 12 is getting pretty borderline in our modern uh computing. Uh we're going to set 14 or higher. And if I ask you to set good password policies on Intex, this is what I mean. I want you to require nothing except for length. And the length should be at least 14 characters. We want to encourage people to use past phrases comes to failed login attempt or max uh failed attempts or when things time out uh or all of these other things uh allowable characters etc. I'm going to leave those off uh just for our development purposes. But this is something that we're going to set up to lock things down. Now obviously our current password does not meet this requirement and so we'll have to change that uh as we move forward. Okay, that's pass passwords. The next thing we want to do also in here, we can do it in the next place and we already got some sample code in here. There we go. Let's talk about cookies. All right, cookies are a file that are stored on your computer. And most commonly, we use them for session management or for tracking people across the internet. Session management good, tracking people over the internet and maybe bad depending on if you're a marketer. Okay. Now, when we're dealing with cookies here, we have some options that we need to think about. Some cookies are available by the browser within the DOM. Okay? Some cookies are not they are only sent over HTTP and they are not sent with the content of the page. It is not secure at all to use cookies that are accessible to the browser for authentication or session management. They are susceptible to cross-sight scripting attacks and somebody could grab your session key, you know, session hijacking uh if we set it improperly. So, we want to make sure that we are setting HTTP only for our session cookies. It must be that way otherwise uh we have major problems. Okay. Now we are going to run into course issues. Uh we've got some core settings here. Um we want to make sure so this is the one that is in my opinion like the non-negotiable if we're dealing with session cookies, but we want to make sure that we do the rest of it correct as well. Um, secure policy set to always uh forces HTTPS for O cookies. That's a good practice. Now, on a dev environment, we might run into some problems. We'll see if we do uh when we set this one. Uh same site. Right now, we currently have the same site attribute set to none. The same site has to do with where the cookie can come from. Can it come from a different site or does it have to be from the exact same site? Now for development environments and when we're using a React front end and a web API backend that is uh sending the cookie along, we can run into some problems. So let's set this. Let's see if it will work with lax uh instead of none. And uh if we need to relax this one, we will. Uh the ones that are really crucial are the HTTP only and also if you can uh HTTPS only, which is the secure policy. Now, the when does this cookie expire? Well, that's sort of a depending on your use case. You know, if we're a bank, probably within five or 10 minutes. Uh if we're, you know, full and we want to have Gmail logged in for a long time, maybe this is like two or three weeks. Um if we're learning suite, this is two hours. And so, we can define what we want this to be. This one really depends on your use case of when you want to do it. Then uh sliding expiration has to do with whether it uh reissues cookies um when you're more than halfway through your expiration date as it keeps kind of re-upping your date. Um we'll set that to true. That's fine. Okay. So that's hardened our off cookie. We'll see if it breaks anything, but uh that's a much much much more secure policy. Okay. Now the next thing we want to do is we want to add some security headers. Specifically, we want to add the CSP header or the content security policy header. And we can do that in this program.cs, but it can get a little bit uh bulky. We're already kind of adding a bunch of stuff in here. And so just to keep this clean, especially if we're going to mess with our CSP header file a bunch, let's go and add in a new uh a new class um new file where we're going to add in uh our CSP header stuff just so we have a single source where we do that. And then we'll add a line in here to call that and bring it into our program. So let's go to uh let's see, do we have folder? We don't. So on the back end, let's add a new folder. Some people will put this in a folder that's kind of like a Oh, we don't want it in the data folder. Let's do this in Let's just do it in here. And we'll call this the infrastructure folder. That's not where we want it. Let me make sure we put this in the right place. We want it in the back end and we want it in root kit API. Yes, we'll move it there. Okay, great. So, inside our infrastructure folder, again, you can call this other things, uh, as long as we have a place where we put it and we remember where it's at. Uh, let's add our new file. We'll call this security header, um, security headers CS. That sounds good. Okay. And let's do space root kit API.frastructure. And let's see what it thinks we are doing. So, uh, it thinks that we're adding the constant security policy header, which we definitely do want to do. Um, let's set this up as, uh, public settings class. Okay, that's fine. And let's add our string here policy. Do we want to add anything else? Uh I think we might leave most of these things off. Uh we really want to set up just the CSP header here. And then let's do a public static application builder. Let's use security headers. This and we will leave that alone. right now just leave that blank. Now we can have the the security headers end up getting called we get to our program. So in here let's specify this. So the content security policy string we're going to set some basic stuff in here. Let's go and grab I'll copy and paste this. Let's set this right here. Okay. So, there's our string. Okay. And let's add these in. So, we're going to add just the CSP header in here. don't have the context in here. So, we need to make sure we've got that. All right. We got we got to set some stuff up in order for this to work properly. So, let's do location services. Get required required service environment. Okay, now we've got our context response. Let's see. We could do it way or let's see if we could do starting right now. Good. But we not we need to get our context in there. I've got a couple of typos in here. So, this is response here. And then rather than add do let's see if that fixes our problem. Okay, cool. So what this is doing is adding the content security policy to our HTTP headers on the starting of this app. And this is the headers that we're going to set. Which if we are using stuff that we are linking to that we are not serving on the same server, like if we're using images that are hosted elsewhere or a Google font that's used elsewhere or a CDN JavaScript library that's hosted elsewhere or whatever, um those won't work and we'll have to loosen these up. But this is the place where we're going to do that in um is this security header. Now, if we wanted to add other security headers, uh, like a referral policy or if we wanted to add, you know, any other XC content or other stuff, we could absolutely do that as well. Now, one thing we want to maybe think about here is we might break swagger if we end up doing the CSP header. And so, let's add in a little bit of help there so that we don't break swagger. So inside of our onst starting let's do a if is production let's do if it's not in there is next contents. No, we don't want that. So, if if our environment is There we go. That's what we want. So here, make sure we got environment in there correctly. So if it's not in development and swagger, then we're going to set it differently. So we will set equals security policy. Oh, we uh we can't return the completed task before we get there. Let's uh turn this after. And we just specify that this is environment. So, we're going to grab that environment. That looks good. And this is the kind of the security policy that we want. Okay. Uh hopefully that will exclude uh swagger in a development environment if I've got that correct. Okay. So this is our this is our headers. We're going to specify this pretty restrictive CSP header policy. We're going to uh go and add it to our application as the CSP header unless we are actually let me just hold on a second. Oh, we don't want to do that. We are setting it right here. We don't want to set it right here. We want to set it only if it's not uh development and not swagger. And then we set it to the CSP client security policy that we specified up here. Okay, that looks much better. Okay, great. Uh, so now let's add it to our program. So, we need to come down to our program and get this thing registered. So, let's scroll down and do that. Let's do two changes to our program.cs file. Uh, so let's go let's do it right here. So inside of our scope, let's go and check out actually do we want to do it inside of scope. No, we don't need that inside of scope. Okay, so after after the swagger part, let's set up. So if uh the app is not in development, uh let's use HSTS. So HSTS uh forces the application to use HTTPS. So it sends a header to the client that says, "Yeah, you can't uh you can't even try connecting over HTTP." So that's good. We're already using HTTPS redirection, which is good. But this one enforces that through through header. And then down here, uh I don't would actually know if the order matters on this little part. Let's Let's just do it right here before the course policy. and we'll add app dot use security headers. Those are the uh security headers that we that we added earlier. I believe we need to make sure that we have a reference to this guy. So, let's go up here and make sure we've got that infrastructure. not instructure. Okay, that should do it for that. Okay, we've hardened things a little bit. Uh let's see if we can get this to run with our hardening. Okay, building. It's good. It's good. Let's see what we got. Refresh our page. Catalog can log into the catalog when we're signed out. That's great. Let's just double check our log in. So, this was admin root kit.lo Okay, we're signed in. We can still see the admin page. So, it looks like we haven't broken anything. Now, let's double check uh things that we just added. So, we're going to go and inspect this. All right. I know the text is very small on this, but let's go and check out uh what we've got here. So, in network, let's look at this guy. Let's look at our headers. All right, we can see here on some of our documents, we can see this one right here. For example, we have the content security policy header in the response, which is exactly what we would like to see. HSTS is only working uh when we are not in development mode, which we are. So, that's not going to show up at all. But let's go and see if we can see our cookie. Um I'm in a Firefox based browser browser, so my cookies are in storage. Uh but at Chromium browsers, they'll be in a slightly different location. Let's see what we've got here. So we've got our various cookies uh that are set up here. So here's identity cookie. Here's our uh cross- site request forgery uh cookie. Um that our session cookie for example. Let's double check that our HTTP only cookie or our core identity is set to true and secure is true and the same site cookie or same site uh security is lax. Looks like everything is still working. So, we have set up everything. Now, we haven't uh implemented our registration page and so we don't really have the ability to test the password policy, but we do need to add a registration page. All right. But, uh we've done a pretty good job hardening things down. Well's out.
Evil wells here. Uh real wells didn't know what he's talking about. Uh we did implement the register page. Uh you just have to be logged out to see it. So on the registration page, let's go and see if we can uh register. So we'll go our tester test 2kit.local and we'll do a password and we'll try in psrd. It should we hit create account should should unable to register user doesn't give us a lot of specifics on that. Uh but then if we go one two three four five six and one two three four five six and hit create account then registration succeeded and we should be able to log in with test to get local type it There we go. And we're logged in as test two. So, it looks like we aren't uh requiring special characters and looks like we're just requiring a little bit of length. Although, we could do a little better on the UI. Uh, Eva Wells out.

VIDEO 7
All right, we've made some very good progress. We've got authentication and authorization working. We've done some hardening. And now it's time to add some variation to our authentication schemes. So, in this video, we're going to talk about how to add one type of two-factor authentication. We're going to use the timebased one-time passwords or TOTP. These are the ones where you use an authenticator app. Are they perfect? No. uh they're not the best ones out there, but they don't rely on any third-party service and they just have, you know, we don't have to receive a text. We don't have to receive a push message. We don't have to buy a security key or deal with pass keys which are a little bit confusing and not widely supported everywhere yet. And so, let's just do one type of multiffactor authentication. All right. The cool thing though is because we already uh dealt with identity, we already have the API endpoints already defined for this. Uh so built into the Microsoft ASP net core uh identity, we already have the two-factor authentication uh endpoint. And so we can already go and deal with that. But we actually need to expose uh or not expose, but we need to wire it up to our application. If we were using all.net, all spo.net, and we're using a Blazer or Razer app, we could actually just scaffold in the pages automatically and just have the pages appear kind of magically for us, which would be pretty cool. But we're not doing that. We're doing things in React and we're not using Node as the back end. And so some of the npm packages that we could potentially use aren't really quite as helpful, but we will use a little bit here. So, let's go and add some things to help us out here. So in our API endpoint, if we were to look at this two-factor authentication, we can see what uh comes back. So right, we've got this enable two-factor code, reset shared key, etc. forget machine. That's the schema. And if we execute that, uh you can see what we get back. We get uh got 400 error because we're not actually there. Uh but yeah, come back to what we what we're supposed to get uh when we come back. Oh, here it is. Uh, so we get the shared key if if we're logged in. Sorry. If we're logged in, we we get the shared key, the recovery codes left as a number, recovery codes as a string, and then booleans for is two-factor enabled and is m machine remembered. And so the first thing we're going to do is let's just make a little uh javasc not javascript typescript um type file so that we can capture that information. So in the front end in sources under types we have a few things here. So we have our you know types for our root beer. Let's just go and add a type and we will call this uh let's call it to factor status.typescript. And I'm just going to I've already got this here. So I'm just going to copy and paste from my notes. And we'll grab basically just the things we just talked about. So, we've got a shared key that's a string, a number of recovery codes left as a number, the recovery codes as a string array, and then booleans for those two items. Great. So, now let's go to our O API. Uh, so in our lib in the front end, we've got our O API and we need to add in little bit to be able to handle this multiffactor authentication. All right. So the first thing we need to do is import that type. So import type. We will grab new type that we've got to factor status from two factor status. That looks great. Uh we haven't used it yet, but uh we'll need to fix that. Okay. And then we want to go down to Oh, we're going to leave most of this alone. Let me uh let me copy and paste for my notes because we actually got a bunch of stuff that we need to uh add here. And again, I will post all of these things for everybody. Um so let's see what we've got here. I do need to uh get the capitalization right on that. So let's uh let's kind of walk through the new parts uh here. So we already have that API uh errorish or function already into place. Uh here's some stuff that's new. Okay, so we're going to post uh the two-factor request. It's going to hit that two-factor authentication API as a post. We're going to send a JSON and we're going to include the credentials to make sure that we use those cookie as to authenticate. Um and that's basically it. Uh capture any errors if there's anything with that. Uh we've already got our O session that's was there before. Register user was there before. login user we modified slightly. So before it only took in these three factors, email, password, and remember me. We're now going to pass in the ones that were optional. Um they're still technically optional. This two-factor code and two factor recovery code. We're going to pass those ones in. Keep the rest of the method uh basically the same. Um you know, if if those are in there, we'll include them. If not, we won't. Um log out user the same. Uh get two-factor status is just to uh to go and grab that. Uh enable two factor uh is to post to enable it with our code and disable is also to post that and enable uh is set to false and then reset is to reset rep recovery codes. So, uh, a few a few nuances there in order to handle a couple of the edge cases, but overall we're basically just adding in the option to set or to include two-factor authentication uh in our login method. Okay, let's uh let's switch it up so we get the route. Uh, so in our app, we want to make sure we have a route. Oh, well, we haven't even made this page yet. Uh, we need to to make a page. Uh, I guess might as well add the route now. We're already here. Uh, we'll call this manage uh FFA multiffactor authentication page. And it's going to be in pages. Uh so we'll get there in just a minute. And we will add a route as well. And jump down. Sure. We'll add it that way. Why don't we just call this MFA manage MFA? Okay. So the routing is in place. Uh like I said, we haven't haven't built the page yet, but uh that's uh up there working. Uh let's also while we're adding things that aren't going to work quite yet, uh let's change our header component so that we have a little bit of header uh information in there. We'll do it very similar to how we did the the admin page. So we'll come down here to let's do it right here that admin page. Uh so we'll add in is authenticated. See to MFA manage MFA. We'll just call this MFA. Have link right there as null. That looks good. Okay. So, we've added a little uh little link in our header, right? Uh let's now go into the login page. So we've already got this login page and we want to make sure that we add things to the login page because so far we haven't included anything for the login page. So let's add a con. I will say a two factor do I set two factor code and we use state that do two factor recovery code that works. Okay. Okay. So, let's come down here to where we're logging in. We've got our login user right here. We included email and password and remember me. And now we also need to include two factor code and two factor recovery code. Those ones are technically there we go possible to be undefined. That looks good. And lastly, we need to some code to show those in our page. All right, let's go and find it. So, we've got our password right here. And then there's a remember me. Let's put uh usually remember me is at the end. So, let's go and add some code in here. I'm going to copy and paste for my notes. All right, there we go. So basically I've just added in this div section where we've got a authenticator code element and then blank and then a recovery code for element. All right. Uh finally uh let's add this page in that we've kind of been neglecting for a little bit. So, in our pages section, let's do a new file, and we'll call this manage MFA page. All right. So, we got a page right here, and I'm just going to copy and paste and walk through this file for you from my notes. So, we've got this page right here. We'll deal with these issues in a minute. Let's change that. What did we actually calling these in our types. Call this something else to lowerase factor status. Okay, great. Okay, let's uh let's fix one issue here. So, we need to um need to import an MPM package. And so, in front end folder. Let's uh let's add type add QR code. It's great. And then we also need to add in we also need because we're using TypeScript uh and that QR code package is a little weird. We need to input code. Okay, cool. So now that should get rid of that and clear this. Excellent. Okay, so we're going to use a library to do QR codes because it's pretty common to do QR codes uh when we're doing timebased onetime passwords. All right, let's walk through this code. Uh, so we're importing some stuff, normal stuff. We're reporting this QR code, the header, our use off. We're importing, uh, these, you know, two-factor stuff that we just added to the O API. And then the type that we just, uh, created, uh, just a few minutes ago. So, um, in this case, you know, we've got our our use states that we're going to, you know, modify data in our React page. So in here we've got a use memo. Okay. So we need to memoize this. And so if we don't have an email or we don't have a shared key, then it's going to return blank. Otherwise, we're going to generate and create these uh the URL that is part of our one-time password off uh string. And so when we create a these onetime passwords, we need to have a string. That's how the authenticator apps uh work. Um and so we've got some status checks on this. Uh we've got the QR code which we're going to generate that has the authenticator URI. Um and we'll set some errors if we need to get our two factor status. Uh get the recovery codes if we want. Uh handle when we enable that. And so we set our messages uh or our items here. And so uh you know we set our recovery codes and our status and authentication code etc. Handle disable handle recovery codes. These are all pretty straightforward. Again it's complicated to set from scratch. Uh but these are pretty kind of straightforward. Just kind of doing the things that we need to do. And then we provide some HTML. Again, this was uh partially generated from AI to help us have a page. Um I think I think that's it. Let's uh let's check and see if it's all working. Uh everything looks like it is without error currently. So let's go and see if we can get this up and running. Already running there. Looks like we're up and running here. Let's see if we've got it going. So, here's our page here. Okay, we're signed in as this user already. Uh, which is great. Uh, let's go. We've got an MFA page. It says we're unable to update MFA settings, but we have a QR code that's already here. We don't have a recovery code set. We've got our shared key that we could just copy and paste into our authenticator app or we could use the QR code. Let me pop open my phone. See if authenticator app. Take this. See if it'll handle it. It's thinking. Still thinking. Oh, looks like it's going to work. All right. Already thinking it's called rootkit root root beer. Okay. So, that looks like it's working to add this. So, I'm not going to enable this one here, but I think we've got our timebased onetime password working. Let me go and we'll off screen add it to my password manager and then see if we can get it to log in with a brand new user. So I'm going to log out, register a new user and then add a authenticator app to it and see if I can get this working. All right, off camera I think I've got everything working. So when we go to log in, we have to decide for a UI perspective if we want to have these authenticator codes and recovery codes uh there or every single time someone logs in. This is kind of a cluji solution. So maybe uh maybe be better to have email and password and then if uh the user requires an authenticator code then the UI presents as an additional page before the final uh login information gets submitted. Um, that might be a better option to do that. But here, we'll just go and put this in. I've got uh this here. My authenticator code is built in. And we'll go ahead and sign in with our authenticator app. And we are signed in. And we need authenticator codes uh in order for to log in with this account. And it works. Uh we've got our recovery codes as well. So, looks like uh timebased onetime password is working great. Um, again, the UI could be cleaned up quite a bit, but that's, you know, not what we're working on right now. We're working on security. All right, well out.

VIDEO 8
All right, we're going to try to see if we can get third-party authentication to work. I will tell you that this can be tricky and if it goes smoothly, that will be the first time I've ever created a video on this uh that it has gone smoothly. So, it'll likely have a few hiccups along the way. Uh we'll get this uh we'll get this going. So, let me just point out to you first Microsoft's ASP.NET core documentation. So, if you just go to the main, you know, learn.microsoft.com and ultimately find the ASP.NET Core or use your search engine to get here, uh, make sure that you're using the version of.NET that you're actually currently working in. I'm currently working in .NET 10. They have excellent, excellent documentation here. Um, the nice thing is that AI can often reference this uh to get some, you know, some guidance on what you want to do. Uh in the security and identity section, there is a ton of really good information. Some of which we've already used. Um some of which we won't have time to use this semester just because this is kind of a you know an intro class into ASP.NET. Uh but we have covered a lot of things. What we're want to go now to is the external authentication providers section. And so there are pages on external authentication providers. And here's the overview page and so forth on what we want to do in order to do this. And there are also specific pages for Facebook, Twitter, Google, Microsoft, and then uh sort of an other uh that has a few different options in there. In general, students have had the easiest time in the past with Google. It does vary a little bit from year to year. Students have had success with Microsoft as well. Um a little bit with GitHub. Meta has been much more painful. Um, so if you want to use MetaF Facebook or Twitter, those ones tend to be a little more painful. Uh, so we're going to try Google first and follow the instructions there. So, you'll need to go to the Google API and services and you'll need to if you haven't created a project um you'll need to create a new OOTH credentials and then you'll want to put in the information on uh the OOTH credentials. Um and once you get to the page that has all of the information, you'll choose to create a client. Choose a name for your web application. Doesn't really matter what it is. Oh, sorry. Choose web application. Choose a name for it. And then you'll want to add in the authorized redirect uh URI. So we're going to use httpslochost colon or let's try 3000 right now. We might need to come back and change that if that ends up not being what we want. Um, it might be four or 5,000, but we'll we'll try 3,000 first. And then do forward slashsignin- Google as the authorized redirect URI. And then create that. Save your client ID and your client secret. Now, just be careful your client secret. You close the window. That's the only time you get to look at it. So, make sure you've got it a copy of it somewhere where it is safe. Okay. Now we're going to practice good coding practices for handling these secrets. There are a few different ways where we can handle secrets like API keys, database passwords, things like that. Uh here are our options for doing this appropriately. Option number one, we can set an environmental variable likev variable. make sure that that environmental variable is not put into a repository like GitHub and then we can read the environmental variable. That's an acceptable option. Um, it has some challenges. It's still storing things in a text file. It's not perfect. People still accidentally forget to uh, you know, put that in their git ignore file. Uh, the it's not perfect, but it is an acceptable option. Option two, also an acceptable option, not great either, but it's an acceptable option, is to set an environmental variable. So on your operating system, you can set a variable in your environment in the terminal like the path variable is set so that you can access programs that use the path in the in the terminal. You can set your secrets uh as environmental variables and then just read them from your code as an environmental variable. It's an acceptable option, has some of the same limitations as an ENV variable, except for it doesn't really accidentally go up to GitHub. The third option, which is generally considered the preferred option, although it's a little bit of a pain to get things set up, is to use what's called a secrets manager or a secret manager. Net has a built-in secret or secrets manager, and we're going to use that one. Uh the .NET user secrets command. And then uh if once you move out into the cloud almost all of the cloud actually all of the major cloud computing providers have their own secret or secrets manager for managing these kind of uh pieces of information. There are also other products out there to help you with this. We're going to use the net secrets manager to kind of get used to that practice. So the first thing we want to do is we want to initialize the net secrets manager. Oh, and if we Yeah, we'll need to make sure we do that first. Okay, so in our terminal, uh, when we're in our net folder, we're going to go net user secrets commit. That will initialize our user se user secrets in it. And so we've created this Now, this is just ultimately a text file. It's just not one that's really part of our project. And so, we can now add things to it. And in our documentation, it says, okay, well, here's what you should do is you should do net user secrets set. And then it recommends that you use this name authentication colon Google client ID and then replace and that's in quotes. and then in quotes replace this curly brace client ID with the client ID that you retrieved from Google when you created your key and then then do the same thing for client secret. So I'm going to do that off camera and then we'll talk about uh how to access this secrets manager value in our code. All right, I've added my client ID and client secret to my net secrets manager and hopefully everything's ready to go there. I will remind you that if you're using something besides Google, Google's pretty straightforward on this part. Uh, but if you're using Microsoft, one of the most common problems that people have is swapping the client ID and the client secret. It just it's a little in Microsoft's developer panel. It's just a little hard to tell which is which. And so if what's not working, then maybe swap those in your secrets manager and see if that fixes it. All right, we want to add a package. So, we're going to do a net add package and we're going to grab the Microsoft at least for this example ASPE foration.google package. Uh again, if you're using Microsoft or another provider, you're going to want to use a different one. So, sweet. Now, we've got that up and going, and we know to configure this in our program on our back end. And so let's open up our to get working on this. Okay. Right off the bat, we need to add at the top that we are using that package. Okay, we're going to use the Google package. Then right off the bat, uh, when we're grabbing our strings here, let's just grab the strings from our secrets manager. So, we're going to do the let's call this Google client ID and let's see if it's got it correct. I think the AI will probably intell. So, builder.configuration configuration uh and then grab the name which was what we set here authentication col Google client ID and grab the secret authentication Google and client secret that looks great all right and then let's actually call this so we'll go down here uh before our authorization piece yeah let's do it right here. So, we'll do a if we'll just double check and make sure that that client ID is not null. Let's see if our IntelliSense got it correctly. So if client ID is not null um or empty and if string first client secret isn't null or empty then we'll do builder.services services. Authentication add Google. That's great. And here's the options. Client ID is that value. Client secret is that value. And I believe we need a few other things. So, let's add in something in scheme is the constants.external scheme. Then our call back path is not that. It's just straight up sign in Google because we just said it's right at the port. So slash come on now. Slash sign in Google. We should stop it. No, don't do that. All right, we think we're almost there. Okay, I think that's everything in program. Now we need to go to our authorization controller and handle things in the O controller. I'm just going to copy and paste from my notes and we'll talk about this one's working. So we have added in space. So from that package and then in the O controller also grabbed in this web utilities as well and then this part is just the same. we do add this providers uh http get for providers uh which will tell our app that hey we've got Google as a provider and so that is new and then we've got under the external login then we've got you know the provider and the return path to use the Google defaults for their provider and then we've got information on the callback URL URL. And so this is the once everything comes back, where do we then send the uh the user from the back end back to the front end and call that back. Uh and then we'll use that sign-in manager and then return that challenge to see if we actually got the challenge properly from Google. Um here's our external call back or we'll redirect. Well, we won't redirect if there's an error and we will redirect um if everything goes and succeeds correctly. We'll go ahead and redirect and set the email because that's what we get from Google. We don't get we could get more information with more OOTH information, but right now we're just going to get the email and then we'll create the user just like we normally would with logging in in normally. And that's pretty much everything here. Oh, I guess we also did add in is Google configured properly. So, if this things aren't blank, then everything's good. Okay. Uh that's all set. And again, I'll post all this code and let's go and check. I think we have little tiny bit more to handle in our API off in the front end because we haven't really messed with the front end at all. So, in our AP our o API type script, we've only got a couple things in here, but I'm going to copy paste from my notes and we'll walk through what's new. Okay, so we are uh adding an interface uh with external O provider uh providing a name and a display name. That's not all that fancy. Um and then we've changed a couple things. The API is the same. Our API error is the same. Two factor stuff is the same. So here's our build external login URL. So we're going to grab the provider as a string. Return path is the to the catalog. So, we're going to forward to the catalog once we're logged in. And so, we'll send that. And then here is the external login uh URL that we generate. And then we will go ahead and grab the external providers. Um, and that's just going to grab the API endpoint that has the providers. Uh, we're going to do that as in an authenticated way. And I think that's all we need here. Then we just need to add a Google button. So let's go to uh to our login page. Add a Google button to our page. And just to make sure I don't mess up, I'm also going to copy and paste here. Fix my little typos some of the differences. There's not a whole lot going on in this one. All right. So we're getting um we're getting these external pieces external login URL and providers and external o provider from O API. So that's a little bit different. Uh then we have we're adding in search params um because we need those in our methods. Um, and we have added in external providers here to use state with the external provider array in case we have multiple providers. We're only going to set up Google, but you can theoretically have a, you know, a login page that has a bunch of buttons with Google and Meta and Twitter and GitHub and whatever else, Pinterest, etc. Uh, if we wanted to. And so we're not going to do that. Uh, all right. So let's handle this. See if I can find handle external login. Um so we're going to build that URL and again redirect catalog and then we have a little bit of code that handles the uh Google part. Did I add any Google parts? Oh yeah. So, here is where we have the external providers. Um, we've added a little button here that uh just says continue with the name of the provider and then a button. So, that should be the URL. Add it here. Let's see if it'll build and work. Um, again, I uh I've had some challenges in the past getting this to run on first try, but let's see if we can get it to run. It might have been build. Looks like it's up and running. Let's fingers crossed see if it works. All right, so we're still signed in as our brew master, which is our MFA user. Let's go ahead and log out. Go to log in. Do we have Oh, we have a continue with Google button. So, at least we've got a button. We're signed out. Let's go and continue with Google. And it says we have set a request that's invalid and rerred redirect URI mismatch, which means I think that we need to change the port number on our URI. Let me play with that one for just a minute. All right, let's try one more time. Might work, it might not. Continue with Google. Ah, okay. Looks good. We'll use Gmail account. Do we want to allow access to my email and profile picture? Sure, we do. Fingers crossed. Is it going to Oh, there we go. We are signed in on my Gmail. Looks like we've got third party authentication working. So the part that I changed is that I changed the call back uh in Google's uh API setup I changed it to https colon/lochost colon 5000 which is the backend uh because the backend has to take the call back from Google and then redirect the backend is the one that chooses to redirect to the front end uh but as far as Google is concerned it only knows about the back end because the back end's the the code that's doing the the authentication. So, we've got thirdparty authentication up and running in our app. We've got regular P password uh authentication. We've got multiffactor authentication with authenticator apps and timebased onetime passwords. And now we have at least one provider's worth of thirdparty authentication. Sweet. Things are looking pretty good. Wells out.

VIDEO 9
All right. I think this will be the last thing we do before uh possible deployment video. We'll see if we get to that one or not. Uh so I know you have a deployment video in 413. So we'll see if we uh we do one for this. Uh last thing we want to do is cookies. We are using cookies for authentication. And if we are building our apps where cookies require a notification for consent, then we need to be able to provide that. If we were doing an ASP.NET net only app uh with Razer or Blazer pages, then all we could do is write one line of code in our uh program.cs file and enable the GDPR cookie notifications in our app and it would automatically work and be exactly what we wanted. But we are not doing that. We are using a API backend with a React front end and so we are not going to deal with that. Now there are some thirdparty npm packages that we could use on the front end and you're welcome to use those but let's uh let's just do a very simple one. You can kind of you know see what the development of that would look like um as we go ahead and implement this. So, if we are in the front end, let's go and add uh let's see. First of all, let's add a context because we're going to need to wrap our application in a context in order to make sure that we have cookies uh that are accepted uh everywhere. So, if we find our context, there we go. Here's our o context and our cart context. Let's make a new file and we will call this cookie consent context. All right. And I'm, like I said, I'm just going to copy and paste uh from my notes. We'll go ahead and grab uh this and walk through it. All right. And it even goes without errors. So we've got a context here and basically we have a boolean on whether this the user has uh acknowledged the consent or the the consent or not and we have doing um and we're just going to read that return it and memoize that and we want to use cookie cassette. So this is just a very simple context that basically is just wrapping um a boolean. Okay. All right. Now we want to add a little component that has the banner here. So we will go to our components. Let's add a this cookie consent banner. And let me grab code from my notes. And this one's not going to be super fancy either. All we're going to do is we're going to grab from the context. And then we've got a function here that uh includes the s whether they've acknowledged it or not. And then we just have some code uh with a little bit of wiki notifications on what they're using for and we're not adding analytics. This is just uh this is what we're doing for signin security. Um that's it. We'll add this component as we go along. Cool. All right. Now let's add a page that normally we would wrap this into a privacy policy page. the cookies would be part of that. Uh, we don't currently have a privacy policy page. We probably should, and maybe that's something that you would need to do for Intex, but let's go ahead and add a simple cookie policy page because that's what we've got currently. We'll add a cookie policy page, a pxx. And I would just grab just this generic one for my notes. All right. So, I've added a simple policy page. It's going to use the header and it's just got some HTML that basically just says we use cookies. Here's the essential cookies we use and what they're for, what we don't do, and then a bunch of caveats in here that uh you know, in a real production environment, we want to get a little fancier than this. Uh, but there's our page. And now, let's uh let's wire some things together. So, let's go into our app. We want to wrap some things together. So, first of all, we want to import all that cookie stuff. Cookie consent banner. We definitely want to grab that one and import the cookie policy page. And we want the cookie cookie consent provider. So, we get the context in here and then, all right, where do we want to put our cookie consent provider? Um, realistically based off of this, it doesn't really matter, but let's go ahead and put it here, which yes, we'll break things until we close that out that one out, too. Um, okay. And then we need a route in here. Uh, where do we want to put our route? Let's add a route in here to our cookie page, our policy page. Again, this would probably be normally a privacy page, but that will be sufficient for now. And we have a route, but we don't put it in the header. So, let's go and put in the cookkey page. Again, this probably be a normally would be a privacy policy in the footer. That's probably where we would put it. Uh, normally that's where privacy policies are stored, but we don't really have anything in the footer or we don't really have a footer yet. And so, let's go and fix that. All right. So, we added a little nav link for cookies in our header. Oh, in our app.tsx, we do want to have the cookie consent banner in here as an element. Let's see if that will work. I think so. And last, uh, I'm going to add a tiny bit of, so we haven't really hit CSS at all yet. We'll add a little bit of CSS that will hit the cookie consent banner. So hopefully it looks a tiny bit better. Not actually that much better, but let's go ahead and run this, this, and refresh our page. I'm still signed in. Perhaps a sign in. Okay. Well, that looks kind of terrible. Uh but at least uh here's a cookie notification. And if we don't say anything and we go to the cookies page, then our cookie notice is still here. We go to our cart page, it's still there. So, we are going to at least have to acknowledge it to get it to go away. If we acknowledge those cookies and go to our other pages, then it looks like we get rid of that notification. So that is a cookie notification. Now normally we would probably want to store that in the database and you know handle that appropriately. If we refresh the page looks like we're still back up and we haven't we don't have any need to do that again. If we log out, so fully signed out. Go to the catalog. Get rid of the uh the cache for this page. The cookies and the site data. Refresh the page. Maybe it's going to work. There we go. Uh get rid of the cache and then our cookie notice comes back. So that's exactly what we want to see. Um and we've created a cookie notification and we are at least somewhat uh in compliance with GDPR. Not fully, but uh somewhat in compliance. We need a privacy policy. And the cookie notification should do a little bit more than we're currently doing, but uh it's actually it's actually pretty close to in compliance. All right. Wells out.